if i want to gain the ability to
influence you well then what i have to
do is give you the ability to influence
me
and when i say hey
here's what we're trying to make happen
here's what i want to do and you say
well i think we should do it like this
you know what i should say okay well
let's take a look at that
the more i allow you to influence me the
more open your mind gets for me to
influence you
so
that's
that's that's what i'm gonna do i'm
gonna allow you to influence me and the
more i allow that to happen the more
influence i'm gonna have respect
same thing
if i treat you
like you're
a plebe like you don't matter
you're not gonna respect me at all
but if i treat you with respect when you
try and talk to me i listen and i
respect what you're saying and i try and
understand it fully
then your respect for me is going to go
up as well
so when you want to earn respect give
respect when you want to earn influence
give influence we want to earn trust
give trust all those three are related
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
today's guest is a retired u.s navy seal
officer and new york times best-selling
author he's also the host of the
top-rated jocko podcast and the
co-founder of echelon front and partner
in origen maine
during his time in iraq he was awarded
the bronze and silver stars for his
actions in battle and under his
leadership task unit bruiser became the
most highly decorated special operations
unit in the war
so please help me in welcoming the
author of extreme ownership the
dichotomy of leadership and most
recently leadership strategy and tactics
the decorated combat veteran and
children's author jocko willink
thanks robbie appreciate it thanks for
being here dude
doing good so your
thoughts on leadership have been really
impactful for me i have a list because
people would ask me all the time what
books i read because in no uncertain
terms my success is in direct
correlation to the number of books that
i've read and so people started asking
me like what have you read how did you
change your trajectory in life and so i
made sort of my ultimate playlist of
books
and extreme ownership i think comes in
number two behind the only book that i
think is maybe more foundational which
is
mindset by carol dweck
but when i read your book man i was like
[__] the notion of just own it like
take it in own it own the solution as
well as the problem was really
transformative for me and has played out
wonderfully in terms of my business
relationships so seeing you continue to
go deeper on themes of leadership and
now making a field manual has been
really exciting for me
what are some of the
rules of leadership that you wanted to
get across in the new field manual
so
what happens is with extreme ownership
with the dichotomy of leadership we get
these principles across when we did it
in the most simple straightforward
possible way that we could which is we
tell a war story
we tell what the principle is and then
we show an example from the business
world and i'm saying we because i wrote
these books with a buddy of mine leif
babin that i was in the seal teams with
and so that's what we did and it's
pretty straightforward but you know we
have a consulting company too so as we
go around and talk to people we start
hearing questions and then i have a
podcast and people send me questions all
the time
and
these questions are really about how do
i take these principles because they get
the principles they can explain the
principle
they can quote you the principal but
then they get faced with a problem and
they don't understand how to actually
apply the principle so on my podcast i
was answering these questions all the
time of hey what do i do when what i do
when my boss wants all the credit what
do i do
and and and what do i do when i've got a
young individual that has a lot of
potential but they're not really
taking advantage of it they're not
motivated to make things happen what do
i do then and question after question
after question after question
and i realized okay i need to actually
put these principles in a field manual
that people can pragmatically take
the lessons take the principles and
apply them to what's happening in the
world and that's what i try to do in the
in the new field manual so i'm writing a
book now that's sort of conceptually
about building yourself how you
use beliefs values
your sense of identity all that stuff to
change the direction of your life by
changing the way that you think one of
the things i'm finding most difficult in
putting the book together is like the
order
so what do you need to understand first
what do you need to do first when you
were putting this together you have like
80 some chapters how did you decide the
order like what is leadership
building block number one
well actually what i did was i started
off with
what i considered
leadership building blocks
one two and three from my
life from the seal teams when i got to
the seal teams my first three seal
platoons this is the 1990s there's no
war going on and i looked at these
situations and said okay these are
things that i took
from these specific events or these
specific scenarios and i applied those
for the rest of my career and for the
rest of my life and i apply them today
and so what i did was i started off by
telling these three stories about my
first platoon my second platoon my third
platoon my first platoon
to summarize the story we were doing a
training operation we get into this
tactical situation everyone in my
platoon is focused on one area
everyone's looking down their weapons
waiting for a threat to expose itself
which means you got 16 guys looking down
their weapons and i'm waiting for
someone to make a call i was a new guy
i'm waiting for someone above me in the
chain of command to say hey move here or
hey move forward or make some kind of a
decision
and as i'm waiting no one's doing it so
so i'm a new guy
i'm scared to say anything and i know i
shouldn't say anything so i'm just
waiting
and no one's giving an order no one's
giving any direction so i wait longer
and this goes on for probably
30 seconds or a minute which is a really
long time when you're trying to take
down a target
and finally i said to myself all right
i'm gonna see what's going on so i
actually point my weapon at the ceiling
and i take a step back and i just look
around and and i see that every single
person in my platoon
including my platoon commander including
the assistant platoon commander
including the platoon leading petty
officer everyone is just focused on
their weapons and no one's making a
decision and i can see this and because
i'm looking around and i'm detached from
the scenario just by just by eight
inches i stepped back stepped back to
look around
i can see what decision needs to be made
and so i i summoned up as much courage
as i could as a new guy because new guys
don't make decisions and i said
hold left clear right which is a basic
command that we had rehearsed and you
would practice and i expected someone to
say you know shut up shut up jocko
but instead they repeated the command
they all said hold left clear right
which means we were going to execute it
and sure enough the guys in the left
held and the guys in the right cleared
and we got done and instead of someone
saying hey you need to keep your mouth
shut like one of the more senior guys
said hey good job up there way to make a
call
so i looked at it i said wait a second
how could i have an as a new guy have
made a decision in that situation
that was better than what the more
senior more experienced guys were making
and i realized it was because i took a
step back and detached from it so at
that moment i said to myself okay from
now on
when i get into these tactical scenarios
i'm gonna take a step back and i'm gonna
try and look around and i'm gonna try
and detach myself from the chaos and the
mayhem
and i started doing it all the time in
every tactical situation in the land
warfare in the mountains in the urban
environments i was doing it all the time
and i was able to like see what was
happening it was like a superpower to be
able to see what was happening and make
decisions and so then i actually started
doing it when i was having conversations
and if you and i were in disagreement
and you started getting emotional
instead of me getting emotional back at
you i would just take a step back and be
like oh okay he's really he's really
concerned about this why is he so
concerned what does he see that i don't
see and i started actually just
detaching all the time and that became
a very powerful tool in leadership that
i used to this day
my second platoon
we have a
great platoon chief we have a great
platoon lpo
we have a great assistant platoon
commander
but our platoon commander the guy
actually in charge of the whole tune
he's not very experienced
he had come from a different job in the
navy so he didn't have a lot of
experience and
which is fine like it's okay to be
inexperienced as a leader you can get
through that as long as you're humble
and you listen and you take advice from
other people you're gonna you should be
able to do fine
no one expects you to know everything as
a leader
but he didn't do that he didn't listen
he didn't take advice he didn't take
guidance everything was like his way or
the highway and eventually
we in the platoon got kind of fed up
with it and we had a mutiny inside of
our platoon we went to our commanding
officer and said hey sir we don't want
to work for our platoon commander
he he doesn't listen he's arrogant
and eventually what ended up happening
was this guy got fired as our platoon
commander and that left an impact on me
because as i'm watching this going i'm
thinking myself why don't we like this
guy why doesn't anyone want to listen to
this guy why don't we want to follow
this guy and the reason because he was
arrogant and he didn't listen and he
didn't give us any ownership of
everything everything was about him and
that would that would have
made an impression on me that would have
left a mark but
the mark got left even
more clearly because when that guy got
fired the guy that came in and took over
for him
was was like
i hate to use the word legendary but he
was a pretty legendary seal had a ton of
experience he'd come up through the
ranks
and he had been stationed at every
different kind of seal team
and
he took over as platoon commander and i
kind of thought to myself well he's
going to take over because we're a bunch
of mutineers and they need to put
someone really strong that's going to
like
whip us back into shape so i was
anticipating that we were gonna have
this super hardcore guy
and and this guy shows up
and he's got a nice smile on his face
and he's super humble
and i remember one of the first things
he said to us was like i look forward to
working with you guys
and i was
that word right there i'm gonna work
with you guys not not i'm in charge i'm
glad i'm taking over i'm glad to be your
commander there's nothing like that he
said hey i'm looking forward to working
with you guys so all of a sudden it was
totally different and he started putting
us in charge of things instead of him
coming up with a plan he would say hey
you guys come up with a plan and let me
know how you want to do it
and all of a sudden we had all this
ownership
and that made me reflect
on
the way the first guy had acted compared
to way this guy had acted and i realized
how important it was to be a humble
leader and to listen to other people and
to give ownership to other people so
that was the second platoon and then in
the third platoon
the story that i tell is we were it was
a good solid platoon and we had a good
platoon commander
and we were out in the desert doing some
training and
uh some targets popped up it's just fake
it's just it's not war but we start
engaging the targets like we're supposed
to and everyone gets
in the prone position and is returning
fire
and i did what i had been doing this
whole time which was detached i kind of
took a step back took shot a couple
rounds then kind of pulled back and
looked to see what was going on and i
saw the call that needed to be made
and i gave the platoon commander a
couple seconds to make a call and he
didn't make it so you know i call i made
the call peel left and
everyone said okay peel left and we
peeled left and we left the scenario and
we got our distance and then we stopped
the training exercise and we did a
little debrief and during the debrief
the platoon commander you know he said
to me well why did you make that call
and i said well i could see what we
needed to do you know and you hadn't
made a call so i you know i made the
call and he goes well i actually didn't
want to peel left i wanted to assault
the target
and and right there in that split second
i kind of thought to myself
well like part of my ego flared up and i
was kind of thinking i could have said
something along the lines of well you
need to make a call faster if you're not
going to step up and lead then i'm going
to do it like i could have said that
but i realized at that moment in time
wait a second i didn't need to make a
call
the problem could have developed more
but for some reason i thought that i
needed to be the guy
and i said no you know what you don't
need to be the guy your leader you need
to support your leader
and it's not about you
and so that right there also changed my
attitude because then from then on in my
career and in my life i realized hey i
don't always need to be the center of
attention which is what our ego wants us
to do our ego always wants it to be
about us and it's not about us it's not
about us at all in fact in a situation
like that where the platoon commander
wants to do something maybe he sees
something that i don't see maybe he's
got a different strategic objective that
he wants to accomplish and i'm
undermining that and what does that do
to our platoon hey it makes me feel
great because i think oh yeah i might
not be the guy in charge but i'm out
here making the calls that's your ego
and what you have to do is subordinate
your ego and be supportive of the person
that's in charge and you move forward
together as a team because that's what
it's about it's not about me it's about
the team and so
when you ask me
how do i start off the book and how did
i figure out what order to go in that's
what i started with these three kind of
foundational
things and you know i built on those
things and obviously the book extreme
ownership which you mentioned
that became
kind of the core
tenet of the way i think
but
those
seeds were planted
in those earlier platoons
and so although i built upon those
things it was those three fundamental
lessons that i started with and so
that's what i started the book with
knowing that you get that sense and the
way that you structured things they do
build on each other and it's
you know building a mindset and having
the principles to act through
is i think really effective and if i you
call it out as being a field manual and
i think it feels like that like even if
that had not been on the cover you you
start to get the sense of okay wait one
thing is going to stack to the next is
going to stack to the next
and also there there are sort of larger
movements in the book one of them you
touched on a little bit here i'd like to
go deeper on is the notion of
relationships and you talk about how
important relationships are and how
especially in the military in such high
pressure situations how do you build
those relationships so that they're
really meaningful so that
in the dichotomy of leadership you talk
a lot about you can be too friendly but
you can also be too distant so in a
field manual sense how do i like and i
ask myself this as the ceo right there
are days that i want to come and and
play
with my teammates right like i care
about them and i want them to know that
like i really do care like as a human
being
and so you want to sort of be in it some
days and play and and just be you know
one of the the guys as it were
but i do worry about going too far and
then you don't have the distance to get
the things done that need to be done so
how do you
build those kind of lasting and useful
relationships yeah this is
when when i say that
relationships are the most important
thing
in getting things done when i look back
at my career in the navy and the seal
teams
just about every single thing that i
ever did
was through relationships so the amount
of times that i looked at one of my
subordinates
and said no you will do what i'm saying
because i'm in charge
i don't think i actually honestly ever
said that one single time i think it was
always hey
this is what we got to get done how do
you think we should do it do you think
this is smart and it was all based on
relationships and up the chain of
command too there was never a time that
one of my bosses said
hey jocko shut up and you do what i told
you to do there was never a time that
one of my bosses said that to me there
was you know if i had a question if i
pushed back they gave me legitimate
answers if they didn't have good answers
then they would modulate or change what
it is that they were telling me to do so
this idea of
having relationships up and down the
chain of command and and
there's a word that people bring up a
lot
and i think they're pretty
interchangeable and it's relationships
and trust right it's relate trust
is built on relationships relationships
are built on trust if you don't trust me
we don't really have a relationship
the more deeply you trust me the better
relationship we have so how do i build
trust with you so if you're above me in
the chain of command
well this and this is one of those uh
answers that's so obvious it's it's
crazy but people actually fail to do
this which is
if
if you ask me to do something as my boss
i do it and i do it well and i do it
consistently and i go above and beyond
what you ask and if you want me to
deliver this project by this date i
deliver it earlier and i deliver it to
the best of my ability above and beyond
what you expected
and you say oh wow when i ask jonko to
do something
he actually does it and that's where it
starts it starts with that right there
with me performing me offering advice me
me taking what you asked me to do and
doing it that's the number one thing
if we flip those roles
and now i'm in charge of you how do i
build trust with you well what i do is i
give you
a project
and instead of me giving you a project
and then saying hey here's how i want
you to do this and here's how i want you
to the next part instead i say hey
here's a project
let me know how you want to do it
and then you go figure out how you want
to get done and i don't micromanage you
and i don't ask you a million questions
about and and tell you no don't do it
like that do it like this
i let you do it and what does that tell
you
that tells you that i trust you i trust
you and when i trust you you start to
trust me and by the way
if something goes wrong instead of me
jumping down your throat and hanging you
out to dry and making you an example in
front of everyone
i say hey let's figure out what went
wrong did i not support you well enough
did i not give you what you needed and
so you realize oh he's not going to hang
me out to dry he's going to give me the
support he's going to try and teach me
if something goes wrong instead of
trying to drop the hammer on me
and in order to do this properly of
course
let's say you just started working for
me
the first thing i would hand you
wouldn't be a massively strategic
important project and say hey here's the
here's you know here's a multi-million
dollar project you take and run with it
i'll be over here
i trust you you make it happen because i
don't know you how can i trust you if i
don't know you so i'm gonna give you a
smaller project i'm gonna give you
something a little to start on and then
you do that you do that well boom now
i'm gonna give you something bigger and
we continue to go in that direction
until pretty much we get to a point
where all i really have to tell you is
hey
this is the vision this is what we're
trying to make happen run with it if you
go if you if you need to pass this
barrier of whatever kind let me know so
i can let everyone else know but
it's on you run with it
um one thing that i think i've struggled
with as a leader is
i my success is all predicated on being
the unreasonable man and i don't know if
you've ever heard that quote
um bertrand russell i think he said all
progress depends or the the reasonable
man conforms to the world the
unreasonable man insists that the world
conform to him therefore all progress
depends on the unreasonable man and i
have literally proven that in my life
like everything has been an echo of
everyone's saying something couldn't be
done and then me going in and it's a
game i play called no [__] what
would it take and then you figure out
what it would take to do this thing
everybody else just writes off because
they say it's impossible
going in and doing it so then as things
settle and now it's not just me sort of
having to be this chaotic madman to get
everything done you've got a team
the temptation is when you assign
something to somebody and they tell you
that that's impossible the reaction is
to basically give them all the
parameters of the job and say no it is
possible go go go
and i think that ends up robbing agency
from people because i have to like be so
aggressive just to convince them that it
is possible and so
where i would love to hear your thoughts
is how much of the parameters of the
project do you give someone like if you
say i know this can be done in a week i
know it can be done on this budget
and you say that hey get this done like
it can't be done
then of course to convince them what i
do is i give them the path and i say
well if you did this it would work do we
agree and then when they agree they can
go do it but by then i've now taken all
of that ownership away from them and
they're just executing on
exactly my plan and so i know i'm not
getting what you're talking about so
it's like [__] do i really just back off
and go
i know it's not impossible but it's
impossible if i don't want to ruin this
relationship how do you handle
situations like that
i ask questions
now when i ask questions
this is a this is a tool but it's also
legitimate questions
so when i say hey tom here's the project
i want you to get done can you take a
look at it and tell me how you want to
get it done and you come back to me you
know three days later and you say hey
boss i was looking at this thing and
it's just not possible
and i don't say well actually it is
possible so i've already thought it
through here's how here's how you need
to do it instead i go well
what's what what do you think our real
challenges are and then you say well you
know we can't get the supplies in time
and then you say well and also we don't
have enough manning and i say okay well
how what's taken the supplies so long to
get here and you say well you know
they're coming across the country on a
truck
and so it's going to take you know a
week and a half for them to get here and
we don't have enough people because it's
going to take 190 man hours in this
amount of time
and and i only have three guys so it's
impossible and i go
is there any other way to ship stuff
across the country
and you say well
i mean
i guess we could we could fly but it's
going to be more expensive oh
okay well how much more expensive
you see what i'm saying right and so
eventually
eventually you're going to come to the
solution
you're going to come to the solution
and and i'm going to be happy that you
come to solution or there's a chance
that you actually say hey jocko it's
it's not possible and here's why and you
tell me something that i didn't i didn't
foresee because i'm at a higher level
i'm elevated i'm working on i'm
overseeing 14 different projects you
just got one when you dig in and you
pull the thread you realize it can't be
done i go oh
okay well i that makes sense
okay
yeah i uh i love that
and you have two elements that i'll say
maybe are a dichotomy but i'll be
interested to hear what you think which
is
your you always soft shoe it a little
bit to talk about it is kind of
manipulation
uh and then truth and you have chapters
on both in the book
where do you come down on how just sort
of transparent you are versus knowing i
have an outcome that i need to get to
i'm realistic about human psychology if
i just come in and [__] give you the
answer it doesn't work you feel robbed
of your agency and your ownership and so
i have to get you there slowly but i'm
also trying not to
make it obvious that i'm leading you
there
i'm legitimately asking these questions
i'm not i'm not doing this okay well
we're going to get you there and that's
what's going to happen i already know
the outcome no i i think i know the
outcome but i'm not sure of it you know
how many times i'm sure of what the
outcome's going to be not very often
so
that the truth is i i am i'm being
totally transparent i'm asking
legitimate questions i think i know the
answers i think they're going to lead to
the right place and so it's okay to let
that run its course now you talked about
manipulation manipulation obviously has
a bad connotation
leadership has a good connotation what's
the difference between the two because
guess what if i'm manipulating you i'm
trying to get you to do something
if i'm leading you i'm trying to get you
to do something and many of the tools
are very similar so what's the
difference between me leading you and me
manipulating you it's very easy for me
to answer that question
if i'm manipulating you i'm trying to
get you to do something
that's going to benefit me
if i'm leading
i'm trying to get you to do something
that's going to benefit you it's going
to benefit the team and it's going to
benefit the mission
so for me those are
those are too easy those are too easy
it's it's real obvious and and by the
way if i'm a manipulator
i can get away with that for a little
while but eventually you're going to
look at me for what i am you're going to
see that the maneuvers i'm making the
tools i'm using i'm utilizing those
tools for my own benefit and as soon as
you see that you
you won't fully support me you you won't
the same goes for when i'm trying to
make you do something good for yourself
and for the team you're going to see
that too
and you're going to say
he's he actually cares about me that's
what he's doing this for and when you
know i care about you
you'll do anything for me i mean that's
what it boils down to if my team and i i
mention that in the book it's like
oh i want to give you hard criticism how
do i give you hard criticism the first
thing i have to do is make sure that you
understand i care about you which is not
which is not easy to do and it's not
always obvious
but if you know
that more than anything else what i want
is for you to be successful when i say
hey tom i'm looking at the outcome of
the last project and you were
like three weeks past the time
i think there's some things that we
could do to kind of
make you a little bit more efficient
in leading these things
if you know that my number one thing is
that i care about you you're gonna be
all ears
to an extent
because guess what percentage of the
world is truly open for criticism
what's the number oh it's tiny
there's so few people that are truly
open to criticism i i always use this
example like if if i went and talked to
your company
and got done and was like you know hey
tom you know it's great talking your
company you got any feedback for me
and you said
well yeah you know i think you could
have spent a little more time talking
about extreme ownership it would have
been a little bit better for my crew
and in the back of my mind i'm thinking
oh really
oh you think no that's what we even
though
even though i actually asked for
feedback
i'm getting getting mad my ego is
perking up so most of the time people
don't want to get that direct feedback
and and in fact sometimes when i hear
people say you know i'm just going to
get direct with this person you know i'm
just going to i'm just going to let them
know exactly what they're screwing up
almost always that's a bad idea
now and there's some people that sit
there and they say
well that's weak or whatever but it's
not because i'm gonna get the message to
you i'm just gonna deliver it in a way
that
you accept it more that your mind is
open to it
that that's what i'm trying to do as a
leader as a friend as someone that cares
about you
hey look i need to get this information
to you now this will escalate over time
and if i've tried you know if i said hey
hey tom i think we could do this better
and you still fail and i say hey tom
maybe you should try this and you still
fail i know and then i say hey tom i
think this is the way you should go and
you still fail and then i you know i'm
going to get to a point where i'm saying
listen tom this isn't working the way
you are doing this is not working and i
told you this and i told you that and i
told you the other thing and what i'm
trying to say is that you need to change
this part of your game it is hurting you
so sometimes it gets there where i've
i've
totally exhausted every conversation
that i can think of you know how often i
escalated to that point in my career my
life like almost never
almost never do you get someone
that is so
thick-headed
that they're not going to listen to you
and when they are it's because they have
a giant ego it's because they their ego
they can't see the fact that
oh
i'm making some real bad mistakes and by
the way when you've delivered them that
final message of like hey here's exactly
what you're screwing up what they say is
you know no you just don't know what
it's like in my shoes
and that's when you know you can't help
them
what is it you've you've said that your
entire podcast is about human nature
why is that so important to spend that
kind of time on what is it you see that
you want to communicate
well if you want to be a good leader you
have to understand human nature
and the places
where human nature reveals itself most
clearly
are times of
extreme
sorrow
pain
suffering and inhumanity
so if you want to see what happens to
human beings how they behave see what
they do in a concentration camp
if you want to
understand humans better understand what
they do
in
the genocide in rwanda
when 800 000 people were killed in a
hundred days
mostly with machetes
there's something going on there that we
need to understand
if you want to understand leadership
you want to understand human nature you
need to look at the milai massacre which
happened in vietnam
which was perpetrated by american
soldiers normal american soldiers
normal american soldiers you know you're
you know you see the typical war movie
they got the typical americans you know
they got the kid from the city they got
the kid from the country they got the
jock they got the rock
that's what they and that's what this
was that's what that company soldiers
was
and they went in there
and
committed
a heinous atrocities
and if we don't recognize
what causes that where that comes from
and that it's actually possible
then
it's bound to happen again
you've talked on your podcast very
eloquently about emotional control
you've talked sort of fun and
tongue-in-cheek about stuffing your
emotions down
um
how the [__] do you do that when the
person you're standing next to who you
love and care about just got shot
like how do you not hulk out and just
[__] shoot indiscriminately
that's
one of the things you have to watch out
for that's why you have to understand
human nature right because you have to
understand and and believe me like my
deployments to iraq i was
30 plus years old my last deployment to
iraq i think it was 34 35 years old
but that's me i'm a 35 year old man with
a wife and kids i have guys in my
platoons that are
20 years old 21 years old 22 years old
i need to pay attention to them
because they're going to have less
insight into the world
and so it's going to be challenging so
what we that's what we do that's what
leaders are there for so we as leaders
we have to constantly look at that and
say okay i've got that going on
and and i need to control it
so when people start getting emotional
when when guys get killed how do i get
control over that yeah i absolutely have
to control my own emotions
because
it's your guys
and believe me when you lose one of your
guys you want to kill everyone
everyone
and you know you can't and you know you
shouldn't
so you have to detach from your emotions
you have to get control of them and you
have to make sure that you lead your
your men in the right direction so they
don't do something that is not the right
thing to do
i imagine brazilian jiu jitsu is a
really [__] extraordinary way of
practicing that where and look man don't
get me wrong i am in no way shape or
form experience than bjj but um i know
enough about it sort of from the outside
to say sometimes the right answer when
it seems like you should be fighting and
kicking as hard as you can it's actually
to relax and so having to be somewhat
counterintuitive
has that helped you like i'm always
trying to find the thing for the guy
that isn't good at this yet like what
can he do to practice because you don't
want to send him to afghanistan right
now and say hey go out on the
battlefield and figure this out so
what can he do or she do
to practice
learning to get better control of their
emotions
well it's interesting that you asked me
that question that might one of my
answers for people when they say how can
i get better at detaching and control my
ocean emotions i tell them to start
training jiu jitsu because you're going
to get tapped out in jiu jitsu your ego
is going to get smacked around
so hard you're going to lose your mind
and what you in the work the more the
matter you get
the more aggressive you are the more
you're going to get beat down and the
worse it's going to be so you have to
learn to control your emotions
no doubt about it and then what you have
to do is you have to start practicing
all the time you have to start paying
attention to the
to the
the red flags that go up
when i start raising my voice at you i
go oh that's that's your emotion
and for me like the minute i feel
some sort of anger some sort of jealousy
some sort of
frustration
most of the time i go oh you're getting
mad that's your ego
that's your that's you're getting
emotional about this take a step back
and listen to what the other person's
saying take a step back and try and see
it from their perspective take a step
back and try and understand what they're
trying to say
because sometimes you know if you're not
if you're not a very articulate person
you're just making me mad
it's only because i don't understand
what you're trying to say
take a step back let's talk through it
so pay attention to you know i always
talk about when you're sending an email
to someone and you're typing like this
don't don't send that email that's not a
good email to send that's an emotional
email wait write it out fine and then
save it and read it later and you'll
realize oh yeah i was really mad about
something i was really frustrated
so
how do you do it you practice it you pay
attention to your emotions and you get
control over them have kids if you have
kids you'll have to learn to get control
of your emotions
how do you
gain influence and respect
like what's that process
very similar to when we talked about
trust and building trust and giving
trust if i want to gain the ability to
influence you well then what i have to
do is give you the ability to influence
me
and when i say hey
here's what we're trying to make happen
here's what i want to do and you say
well i think we should do it like this
you know what i should say okay well
let's take a look at that
the more i allow you to influence me the
more open your mind gets for me to
influence you
so that's what i'm gonna do i'm gonna
allow you to influence me and the more i
allow that to happen the more influence
i'm gonna have
respect
same thing
if i treat you
like you're
a plebe like you don't matter
you're not gonna respect me at all
but if i treat you with respect and
respect you when you try and talk to me
and i i listen and i respect what you're
saying and i try and understand it fully
then your respect for me is gonna go up
as well
so when you wanna when you wanna earn
respect give respect when want to earn
influence give influence we want to earn
trust give trust all those three are
related
no that makes a lot of sense and
speaking of
making sense your children's books are
rad
rad and this is one of those things
where uh for better or worse the lesson
i had to learn was to toughen up so
by nature i am um conciliatory i am
fearful
and that was not getting me anywhere in
life and so i had to find the gym i had
to put myself in situations where i was
forced to stand my ground against people
that were very intimidating and it was
like coming up in business for me was
literally a uh it was it was a brutal
environment
and it was perfect
it was exactly what i needed and
like that's becoming i don't know
passe for people and it seems sort of
middle ages now to to have to sort of
scrap and fight your way up but there is
something in that process of of getting
tougher that gives you your own agency
like i feel like i control my own life
now in a way that i did not before i
learned how to and look when i say learn
how to fight i'm talking intellectually
but having to stand up for myself having
to always be in deeply uncomfortable
positions
and then also physically getting tougher
through just adding strength to my body
what made you want to write
children's books
and what are some of the core principles
you hope kids take away from that
well i decided to write kids books
because i have four kids and if you go
out into the market these days and look
for a
book for kids that actually
espouses the values that will make them
lead a good life there aren't very many
so instead of complaining about it i
said okay well i'll write some books
and the first book that i wrote was the
way the warrior kid which is about a
little kid who
can't do any pull-ups so he gets made
fun of doesn't know his times tables so
he gets made fun of
doesn't know how to swim so he gets made
fun of and gets picked on by the school
bully
so his life is miserable last day of
school kind of everything comes to a
head he's crying behind the library
on his way home he remembers that his
uncle jake is coming to stay with him
for the summer his uncle jake was in the
seal teams
so
his uncle jake is actually staying in
his bedroom with him so they you know
uncle jake shows up and says hey you
know what do you want to do tomorrow you
don't have to go to school you want to
go for a swim you want to go play
basketball what do you want to do
and the young kid named mark says well
you know i don't know how to swim i'm
not good at sports i can't do anything
and i'm getting picked on he breaks down
and his uncle jake says well
okay let's look at these problems all
these different problems that you have
we can solve these problems
but you have to be committed you have to
be able to
willing to put in the work
and so over the course of the summer he
teaches him how to study
teaches him to eat right teaches them
how to work out teaches him how to swim
and teaches him jiu jitsu so he knows
how to fight
and it's obviously it's uh
transformational for the kid
he ends up writing his own warrior kid
code about
being a
warrior and that's what the story is i i
was telling you earlier
i get little handwritten notes from kids
all over the world
that say you know
dear mr jocko or dear uncle jake
i'm
six years old
i just did my first pull-up and i know
my times table's up to five thank you
melvin
and
those are the most rewarding things that
that i get
are those things but there was a really
interesting i got i got a letter and
i know you get all kinds of stuff from
people that say hey thank you thank you
for doing this thank you for showing me
the path whatever and i get a lot of
those and i never read them
on my podcast i always read them but i
never read them but i got one
this let this letter from this guy and
it was it was a great letter and he says
you know i'm 37 years old i was out of
shape i was overweight i was eating
horribly i wasn't advancing in my job
wasn't happy wasn't getting along with
my wife
and
he goes then i read your book
he goes and i started with
i started waking up a little early i
started just doing a little bit of
workout i stopped drinking beer on the
road
i did this i did that and he said you
know it's been whatever it was it's been
eight months
i've lost 22 pounds
i got a promotion my wife and i are
happy
and i just wanted to say thank you for
writing that book
and by the way the book was
way of the warriors
and so that that's the one it took me by
surprise you know because i've written
the discipline equals freedom field
manual which is really focused on this
kind of stuff for adults
and he read that kid's book and it's it
made it had a big impact so then people
say all the time hey you you flanked us
because you wrote this book you said
it's for kids but every one of those
moms and dads that reads those books go
oh this is what it is so
that's how i ended up writing all these
kids books just seeing how
seeing the struggles that my kids went
through growing up and this is the other
thing that made me do it was when you're
when you're an adult right and your kid
has some problem
you're kind of like whatever you know
it's you know you're running a business
or like i was in the military and you
know my problems are these big giant
problems
of of we're at war with other countries
right there's guys being killed that's a
problem
and you know i look at my daughter and
say
you know oh she doesn't know her times
tables
who cares right
and what i realized is when you're a kid
that's the whole world right the whole
world is you're you feel stupid because
you didn't know your times tables yet
and that's a real story that story in
the way of the warrior kid was my oldest
daughter
who's
very smart young well she's she's
old now and goes to one of the best
country colleges in the world so she's
not dumb but she came home from school
one day and said i'm dumb
and i kind of said what are you talking
about she said i'm stupid i said what do
you mean she said all the kids know
their times tables and i don't know them
and i said well
how much have you studied them
and she said
what do you mean and i said well you
need to study them you need to learn
them and so i sat her down we made flash
cards and she studied them and in an
hour she knew all of her all of her time
tables
of course this is my fault bad dad i
didn't teach her how to study but
you know in her mind she thought she was
stupid
but you know i said you're not born
knowing the times tables you need to
study them so
if i can make that mistake as a dad
that cares about his kids how many other
parents are making that mistake how many
other kids go through life and they go
oh i'm stupid or oh i i'm not strong
i can't do any pull-ups i'm not strong
actually
have you ever done pull-ups before
no oh guess what in order to get strong
you got to do pull-ups and i talk about
this in the book sure are there some
kids that are going to be able to do
pull-ups out of the gate sure are there
kids some kids that can learn their time
tables really quickly sure you're not
going to you're not going to be great at
everything but you can get better as
long as you have the discipline put your
mind to it and are willing to work hard
so there's the kids books dude they're
so good i remember as a kid in uh middle
school and we had to do pull-ups and
because my last name starts with the b i
was one of the first people to try so it
was like my friend lauren ahrens jumps
up he just hangs like
am i really supposed to be able to do it
and he lets go i jump up and i go to
pull myself and i'm like
oh this actually isn't possible like
there is no way to pull yourself up like
this and i'm like why are they having a
scissors i couldn't understand and then
we get to christian russell and he bangs
out 22 and i was like what like that was
so startling to me that somebody who had
never done a pull-up before in his life
could do 22 and i was like yeah we are
not all
born equal some people have some
advantages but unfortunately the message
i did not have your book and so i did
not think oh i could get good at this i
just thought i suck at this and you
might not be able to get to 22. and if
he worked out he can get to 72 right but
you can get to 17 you can get to 20. you
can get to one which if you can get to
one you can get to three if you can get
to three you can get to seven
so many kids these days miss out on the
fact that the correlation between
working and studying and and pushing
yourself to
the results that you get that's one
complaint that i have about
or i shouldn't say complaint but it's
it's what i think hurts kids is they
don't connect what they're doing now
with the future i know i didn't you know
when i was a kid i was
you know what's the future it's tomorrow
the future is oh the weekend on friday
night we're gonna go to johnny's house
and we're gonna play war that's the
future you don't realize oh there's you
can actually set yourself up what you're
doing today is connected to the future
okay once you make that connection you
say okay maybe i'll study maybe i'll
train maybe i'll work out harder you can
start doing those things because you can
improve and you can have a better life
if you have discipline now
it'll give you freedom in the future
yeah for sure have you gotten any
pushback on the fact that the way he
deals with the bully is learning to
fight which i think is genius and the
obvious answer but i wouldn't say it's
the common answer
i don't think i've gotten any pushback
i'm sure there's people that hate me or
whatever i'm sure there's people that
disagree and think that the method that
you should do is
is turn the other cheek or or
you know try and talk your way out of it
the problem is you need to be in a
position
where
you can talk your way out of it because
if you're around a person that's a bully
they don't understand talking they don't
care what you say to them they're gonna
physically bully you so if you don't
have the physical
knowledge presence ability to stand up
and stop that then you're gonna get
abused you're gonna get beat up that
that's hey that's the horrible reality
i'm sorry i'm sorry that it is that way
and as you know in the book
he's actually able to once he has the
confidence and the true ability
he stands up to the bully and the bully
is is actually a weakling
he's
he doesn't want to fight
but he's never been challenged before
which is a very realistic bully bully
big kid no one ever stands up to him
because they're big when someone finally
says oh i'll actually
fight you if i have to
and the bully says oh
you've never been in a fight before
never
never had anyone stand up to him and
that that makes them
it makes them get humbled really quickly
so and that is what happens when someone
knows
when someone knows how to fight you
don't have to fight and that's you know
that sounds like one of those like uh
whatever
spiritual things about hey the warrior
that knows how to fight
mate does not have to fight it's like
i'm not saying like that i'm telling you
right now
if you know how to fight you have a much
rarer chance of going
of getting into a fight
when you're
you know when i was a kid
a younger kid you know a teenager i got
a lot of fights
and you could recognize when someone
knew how to fight you you could look at
them and now that i've been training jiu
jitsu and fought a ton
when i look at someone
you can see like oh this person knows
how to fight when someone looks at me
they're not thinking i'm going to take
advantage
it's not even just like hey this guy's
big but they can tell hey
you know i'll i'll fight i don't really
want to because i'm busy but if you want
to push me you know we're going to have
a problem and it's going to get solved
my way so having that is is important
and i can tell you right now the amount
of fights i've gotten since
before i knew jiu jitsu since after is
like it's a it's a
it directly correlated to the more you
know the less you fight
that is a spectacular place to wrap this
particular edition up man where can
people find out more about you
i guess i'm on the typical social media
platforms
instagram facebook twitter
i'm i'm at
jocko willing at jacqueline willink i
have a podcast called jaco podcast that
we talked about it's available wherever
you listen to podcasts
i have my company on front which is
echelonfront.com and i have my company
origin main which is origin main.com
where we sell stuff for jiu jitsu and
stuff for life like these jeans and um
and then jockopodcast.com is
the podcast website so
yeah normally i have a pretty good guess
how my guests will answer the last
question
with you your life is so varied i'm
actually not sure
what's the impact that you want to have
on the world
just just help people learn the lessons
that i've learned so they don't have to
learn them for themselves there's a lot
of mistakes that i've made there's a lot
of i've been
blessed and lucky and i explained this
in leadership strategy and tactics that
i've been very lucky to have been
through what i've been through to been
around the people that i've been around
to learn the things that i've been
blessed and lucky enough to be able to
learn and i don't want to hoard them i
want to give them away so that's why i'm
doing what i'm doing and trying to help
people as much as i can
it's amazing
guys uh you will not be sorry if you
dive in and read everything this man has
ever written even for the adults i'm
gonna tell you checking out his kids
book is equally powerful he has several
a coloring book by the way is out now i
think or coming very soon um
the podcast is surreal you you owe
yourself listening to the podcast and
hearing such a fascinating glimpse into
the human condition
uh it is it is really incredible
somebody who can go from the the beauty
of life so quickly to the horror side of
life uh and yet wrap it up and make it
all make sense is really extraordinary
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
jacob [__] help
me i was amazing man appreciate it
there's a lot of people in mediocrity
who have a nice resume
but they're one-timers man they hit they
hit a one-time deal they busted it open
got a lot of money but they're good
you're mediocre now man what are you
[__] doing today tomorrow the next
[__] day